List of terms important to salus users. (#17)
racker/salus-docs: overview/user-terminology.md

# Salus User Terminology
## Resource
A resource represents an individual device,  i.e. a server, firewall, or load balancer.  These types of resources are generally created automatically.

> Resources can manually be created to represent any other object that should be monitored.  e.g. you may create a Resource to represent an entire cloud deployment or even your house for home monitoring.

Author: As James mentions in his document, they will either be created by envoy attachment or automation, so I felt comfortable not saying that they may need to be created manually.  Do you think the distinction is important to the end users?

> Resources can manually be created to represent any other object that should be monitored.  e.g. you may create a Resource to represent an entire cloud deployment or even your house for home monitoring.

Reviewer: Which document is that?

> Resources can manually be created to represent any other object that should be monitored.  e.g. you may create a Resource to represent an entire cloud deployment or even your house for home monitoring.

Author: https://github.com/racker/salus-docs/blob/master/overview/terminology.md#resource

> Resources can manually be created to represent any other object that should be monitored.  e.g. you may create a Resource to represent an entire cloud deployment or even your house for home monitoring.

Reviewer: Oh...it didn't dawn on me that we would end up with both documents and had forgotten `overview/terminology.md` was over in this repo (thought it was still only in the wiki). Now I'm wondering if we can shift that document into the internal docs repo and leave yours as the public facing one? If that works, then maybe my original question still applies.

### Resource Labels

> These are simple key/value mappings that can only consist of strings.  They are used to provide identifiable data that can be used to uniquely identify a resource, such as `host: web0.example.com`, or they can be used as more generic identifiers to be able to form groups of resources: `type: web`.

Author: Seems reasonable.  FYI: most of that phrase came from here: https://github.com/racker/salus-docs/blob/master/overview/terminology.md#labels

See the Monitor Configuration section for how they are used.

## Monitor / Monitor Configuration
A monitor configuration declares the details of what type of monitoring is to be performed, and on which resources.  It contains a list of "label-selectors" which select the resources that will be monitored by this configuration.  For example, assume all the mysql resources have been defined to include the label "type: mysql".   Then a monitor can be configured to generate metrics for those Resources by defining the monitor with a label-selector "type: mysql".

Whenever one or more resources matches the monitor configuration, a monitor will be bound to each matching resource and begin retrieving the relevant metrics for that resource.  Such a monitor is referred to as a "bound monitor".

## Resource Metadata

These are key/value mappings containing arbitrary information of your choosing.  These can include any other data you might want to store with the resource, and can be used in monitors, event tasks, or any custom automation processes.

These are similar to labels but they are not used within a monitor's `labelSelector` to match on the resource.

> A metadata field can be used within a monitor's configuration, where a templated value will be replaced with the corresponding metadata value.  For example, suppose a url monitor is configured to use `address: ${resource.metadata.my_url}`.  Then when new bound monitors are created for each matching resource, the value of `address` will be replaced with the `my_url` metadata value in the resource, each of which is likely to be different.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A metadata field can be used within a monitor's configuration, where a templated value will be replaced with the corresponding metadata value.  For example, suppose an http monitor is configured to use `url: ${resource.metadata.my_url}`.  Then when new bound monitors are created for each matching resource, the value of `url` will be replaced with the `my_url` metadata value in the resource, each of which is likely to be different.
```
We don't have a monitor of type `url` so using `http` along with the real field name might keep things a little clearer.

Author: sounds good.  came from here: https://github.com/racker/salus-docs/blob/master/overview/terminology.md#metadata

This abstraction facilitates the use of one monitor with many resources, eliminating the need to create a separate monitor for each.  

## Monitor Plugins
Different types of metrics can be retrieved using different "plugins".  For example cpu data is retrieved with the "cpu" plugin and mysql data with the "mysql" plugin.  The plugin must be specified when the monitor is configured.

> The current list of plugins is: System, Postgresql, Net, Ping, Disk, SqlServer, Redis, Cpu, Smtp, DiskIo, Dns, Procstat, Mem, NetResponse, Mysql, X509Cert, Apache, HttpResponse

Reviewer 2: Also, this is currently listing the Java class names but not necessarily the salus types.  e.g. `http` would have to be specified via the API not `HttpResponse`.

Certain monitor plugins are remote.  This means they don't require an Envoy running on the resource.  The following are remote monitors: Dns, HttpResponse, NetResponse, Ping, Smtp, X509Cert

Finally, some monitors can be configured with either a local or remote plugin: Mysql, SqlServer, Postgresql

## REST API
The resources and monitors described above, (as well as many of the other constructs defined in this document,) can be created, updated, and deleted using an http based REST api.  Interacting with that api requires authentication with your Rackspace credentials.

## Envoy
An Envoy is the process installed on a resource that accepts the configuration of the monitors bound to it, and the publishing of metrics gathered by those monitors.

Before using the envoy, an envoy token must be generated.  It can be generated with the rest api.  It will need to be included in the envoy configuration when installing the envoy.

## Test Monitors

> Monitors generate data which can take a few minutes to view.  While not long, it can be inconvenient waiting to confirm the expected data is being produced.  To bypass this wait, "test" monitors can be created which return immediately with the data generated.  Note that a test monitor is a one shot.  In other words, it only generates a bit of data for immediate viewing.

Reviewer 2: It's really the combination of test monitor & test task that is relevant here.

If we relate it to ele, test-check, when not used in combination with test-alarm, is mostly for seeing what metrics are available from a given check and possibly to view the metric values; both of which can help when constructing a new alarm.

Using it along with test-alarm would be by far the most prevalent usage.

> Monitors generate data which can take a few minutes to view.

This just felt like a weird sentence.

----

But with all that, maybe we need to change the existing workflow for salus...

What should be verified when a monitor is created?  Should we still verify it against a task or should it just verify that certain metrics are coming back?

> Monitors generate data which can take a few minutes to view.  While not long, it can be inconvenient waiting to confirm the expected data is being produced.  To bypass this wait, "test" monitors can be created which return immediately with the data generated.  Note that a test monitor is a one shot.  In other words, it only generates a bit of data for immediate viewing.

Author: I agree test task is more interesting, but since we didn't have a design before today, I'm going to just go with Geoffs verbage for now, and then update it once test-task is settled.

> So if you're uncertain about the configuration of a particular monitor, you can create a corresponding test monitor, immediately confirm it's correctness, and then create a properly configured monitor.

Reviewer 2: My above point/question is relevant here too.  It sounds like we need to figure out what the expected workflows are.

## Events/Event Tasks

> Monitors cause metrics to be generated that help describe the state of the resources they are bound to.  However, in order to generate an "event", (a notification of a bad state), an "event task" must be configured.  

Reviewer: How about this kind of description for the second half of this:
```suggestion
Monitors cause metrics to be generated that help describe the state of the resources they are bound to; however, since it not feasible to always watch those metrics for unhealthy values, tasks can be defined to produce an event when metrics are unhealthy.  
```

Author: @itzg it looks like you have two different versions of line 54 above.  Can you clarify?

Reviewer 2: He's done once comment for each sentence.  Combine both for his suggested end result.

Reviewer: I separated them since the first suggested change was dependent on whether you wanted to go with my "gathering" suggestion throughout and affected the first part of that compound sentence. This second comment refers to the second part of the compound sentence.

Reviewer: ...combined the suggested change

> Monitors cause metrics to be generated that help describe the state of the resources they are bound to.  However, in order to generate an "event", (a notification of a bad state), an "event task" must be configured.  

Reviewer 2: > a notification of a bad state

to 

> a notification of a state change

---
Edit: saw geoff's second suggestion:

> tasks can be defined to produce an event when metrics are unhealthy

I'd still lean towards something about "stage changes" vs. only talking about things going bad, but I don't mind this wording as much.

Reviewer 2: > bound resources

I'd avoid using that phrase.  Since we have objects called "bound monitors" saying "bound resources" makes me think that's a thing too.

Author: I like "state change" better too.

At it's most basic, an event task is configured by specifying the field name of a metric, a comparison operator,(like "<" or ">"), and a threshold to be tested against.  So, for example, the cpu plugin generates a "usage_user" metric, which states the percent of the cpu being used by user processes.  Configuring an event task with field "usage_user", comparsion operator ">" and threshold "20" would cause an event to be generated whenever the user usage goes above 20%.

## Monitoring Zones

> A public monitoring zone is a location from which Rackspace executes remote monitors.  It is an abstraction for a general location from which data is collected.  Examples of public monitoring zones are "public/us_east_1" and "public/eu_west_1".  Remote monitors are usually automatically configured to run from multiple public monitoring zones, for redundancy.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A public monitoring zone is a location from which Rackspace executes remote monitors.  It is an abstraction for a general location from which data is collected.  Examples of public monitoring zones are "public/us_east_1" and "public/eu_west_1".  Remote monitors, unless explicitly configured otherwise, will be executed from multiple public monitoring zones to provide redundancy.  The zones used will differ based on the location of the monitored resource.
```

In addition, you can create private monitoring zones specific to your Rackspace account.  These are used in conjunction with private pollers as described in the next section.

## Pollers
Pollers are processes that execute remote monitors.  Public Pollers are the processes running in the public monitoring zones as described above.

> However, public pollers may not be able to access the resources to be monitored behind your firewalls.  Rather than changing the firewall rules to allow access, some customers prefer to set up private pollers behind their firewalls.  These pollers are very similar to the Envoys described above but are configured to process remote monitors, rather than local ones.

Reviewer: I'm not sure if it would be confusing to an outside reader, but I would recommend referring to "poller" being more like a special mode of an Envoy, configured within a specific monitoring zone, that manages the execution of remote plugins.

Reviewer 2: I agree with Geoff.  

The initial description of a poller is a little too vague for me and mentioning the envoy could help.

These private pollers can be grouped into private monitoring zones, so as to provide the same level of redundancy, as exhibited by the public pollers that run on Rackspace infrastructure.

## Monitoring Policies
To minimize the work required in setting up monitoring on your infrastructure, Rackspace specificies some defaults that apply to most resources.  These defaults are specified as "Policies".  Generally, you don't need to consider them as they are managed for you automatically.  The only common exception is when you want to disable them.

> In that case you would create your own policies that would allow you to opt out of them.

Reviewer 2: They would have to contact their support team to opt-out.  It is not an ability that should be exposed to customers.

Author: If that is the case then users don't need to know about policies, so I will remove the references.

Reviewer 2: Kinda depends on the audience.  If this is for support I think policies are useful since it explains to them how the default monitors get enabled.  If this is for customers, then I could go along with removal of anything policy related.

Reviewer 3: IMO the first version of these should be made for support with the expectation that its a first draft for customers.

Author: jira ticket says:

```
https://github.com/racker/salus-docs/blob/master/overview/terminology.md 
something like this but make sure its something customers will understand
```

Author: so I wrote it for customers

There are two specific kinds of policies, monitor and metadata.

### Monitor policies

> These are monitors that are turned on by default, like ping and banner testing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These are monitors that are configured on each account by default, such as ping monitoring across all resources containing an ip address.  These configurations may vary based on the type of account you have.
```

> ### Metadata policies

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure we need to go into metadata policies specifically.

In monitor/task config sections it can be mentioned that only certain fields are required as we will populate defaults for the majority unless the customer really wants to override them.  They don't need to know that it's all controlled via metadata policies.

I'm not sure of the best wording for that right now though.

> These are resource metadata that is created by default, like ip address.

Reviewer: Perhaps ping count or timeout would be a better example.

## TODO
Here are a few other concepts I considered adding to this document but wasn't sure.  Do you think users need to know about the following:

```

> telegraf

Reviewer 2: At least mentioning it in the envoy section would be good for one example of an agent envoy might manage.

> monitor translations

Reviewer: Maybe telegraf, but then it and translations are probably best described together in the monitor types doc.

Reviewer 2: I don't think so.  Covering this in the monitor docs should be enough?

> tenant metadata

Reviewer 2: Nope.  This isn't something they should really care about here.  We should probably have a doc that explains how we detect and create new tenants and determine what policies get applied to it, but we need to actually implement all that stuff first.

> acm/release/install

Reviewer 2: Yes, but maybe not yet.  We still need to automate more of that with policy mgmt.

> presence monitor

Reviewer: Maybe

Reviewer 2: It might be best if we wait on this too.  We don't yet know whether it will be enabled by default on everything or not.  I'd assume it should be, but that'd be a business decision.
